src/pages/blog/404ctfs/reverse.mdx, before:

---
layout: "@layouts/blog/Layout.astro"
title: "404CTF Writeup - Reverse Engineering"
description: "404CTF - Reverse Engineering Category: Analyzing software to understand its design and functionality intricacies"
author: "Majed Abdennadher"
timestamp: 1690908821391
duration: 10
tag: "404CTF"
slug: "reverse"
language: "english"
image: "/static/media/404ctf/event_logo.png"
keywords:
  ["Cybersecurity", "404CTF", "Cryptography"]
links: ["crypto", "binary", "stegano"]
---

### Le Divin CrackMe

In this introduction to reverse engineering, we need to find three pieces of information about an executable given to us.
We need to find the compiler, the function used to check the password and the password itself.

For the compiler part, we use `objdump` to disassemble to binary and read the `.comment` section:

```bash
objdump -s --section .comment divin-crackme
# divin-crackme:     file format elf64-x86-64
# 
# Contents of section .comment:
#  0000 4743433a 20284465 6269616e 2031322e  GCC: (Debian 12.
#  0010 322e302d 31342920 31322e32 2e3000    2.0-14) 12.2.0.
```

The next step is to open up a decompiler (or a disassembler if you're bold enough) and start analyzing the program. I opened up ghidra and it has already done
most of the work for us:

![](/static/media/404ctf/divin-crackme-1.png)

As you can see, the password is compared against chunk of the passwords using the `strncmp` function.

Then it's a matter of concatenation to see that the flag is: <span class="break-words">`404CTF{gcc:strncmp:L4_pH1l0soPh13_d4N5_l3_Cr4cKm3}`</span>

### L'inspiration en images

We are given a program that shows a painting with a light cone effect.
The goal of the challenge is the find a the "hidden background". The flag will be in the format `404CTF{vec4(r,g,b,a)}`.

![](/static/media/404ctf/inspiration-en-image-1.png)

The flag format is already very revealing and we can confirm this hypothesis when we decompile the program using `ghidra`.

![](/static/media/404ctf/inspiration-en-image-2.png)

As you can see, the program is using the `C++` and `glfw` which is a lightweight utility library for use with `OpenGL` (Open Graphics Library).
Although diving into the disassembly might be tempting, it's not directly related to finding the flag. Instead, let's focus on the main loop of the program:

![](/static/media/404ctf/inspiration-en-image-2.png)

1. **Check for Program Close**: The program checks if the close button has been requested. If so, it terminates.
2. **User Input Handling**: The main loop handles user input, particularly mouse movements in this case.
3. **Frame Clearing**: The frame is cleared to prepare for the next rendering.
4. **Shader Program Setup**: The program sets up the shader, updating resolution and mouse position (uniform inputs to the shader).
5. **Texture Binding**: A texture, depicting a black background with scribbles, is bound (what we see when using the app).
6. **Drawing**: The program draws everything, applying the light cone effect and any overrides.
7. **Window Events Processing**: The loop processes window events.

In the process, the only "background" that has been overriden is the background used when clearing the frame. In the disassembly it's this line

```c
(*glad_glClearColor)(0x3e4ccccd,0x3e99999a,0x3e99999a,0x3f800000);

# The OpenGL spec says that this function has the following signature
void glClearColor(
  GLfloat red,
  GLfloat green,
  GLfloat blue,
  GLfloat alpha
);
```

It's very likely that `GLfloat = float`, so we can use a float decoder online to get the values of color channels.

Doing so will reveal that the flag is: `404CTF{vec4(0.2, 0.3, 0.3, 1.0)}`.

### Encore une mise à jour

This is a `python 3.11` reverse engineering challenge based on the bytecode specialization introduced in this version.
Here is the script:

```python
# /!\ Ce challenge est conçu pour PYTHON 3.11 !
# Il ne FONCTIONNERA PAS SUR UNE VERSION ANTERIEURE !
# Il a été testé, et est fonctionnel sur python 3.11.0 et python 3.11.3, je ne garanti RIEN, sur les autres versions
# Modifiez le fichier à vos risques et périls.... Je ne suis pas responsable.

h = __import__('dis')
dico = {'adaptive': True}

a = input('Mot de passe : ')
a = [ord(c) for c in a]

def check(dumas, zola):
  cody = h.Bytecode(check, **dico).dis().count('I')
  carmen = 0

  if dumas[36] + cody * dumas[37] + dumas[38] == 25556:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[3] + cody * dumas[4] + dumas[5] == 19862:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[21] + cody * dumas[22] + dumas[23] == 39570:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 35329:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[6] + dumas[7] + cody * dumas[8] == 67347:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[3] + dumas[4] + cody * dumas[5] == 100914:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[3] + cody * dumas[4] + dumas[5] == 49274:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[6] + cody * dumas[7] + dumas[8] == 61221:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[36] + dumas[37] + cody * dumas[38] == 64773:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[9] + dumas[10] + cody * dumas[11] == 49360:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[9] + cody * dumas[10] + dumas[11] == 18857:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[9] + cody * dumas[10] + dumas[11] == 46721:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[15] + dumas[16] + cody * dumas[17] == 58164:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[15] + dumas[16] + cody * dumas[17] == 144852:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[12] + dumas[13] + cody * dumas[14] == 147438:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[12] + dumas[13] + cody * dumas[14] == 59202:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[45] + cody * dumas[46] + dumas[47] == 39501:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[12] + cody * dumas[13] + dumas[14] == 25080:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[15] + cody * dumas[16] + dumas[17] == 27661:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[18] + dumas[19] + cody * dumas[20] == 135810:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[18] + cody * dumas[19] + dumas[20] == 128064:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[15] + cody * dumas[16] + dumas[17] == 68683:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[12] + cody * dumas[13] + dumas[14] == 62232:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[24] + cody * dumas[25] + dumas[26] == 66114:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[27] + cody * dumas[28] + dumas[29] == 25071:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[6] + cody * dumas[7] + dumas[8] == 152553:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[6] + dumas[7] + cody * dumas[8] == 27099:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[21] + dumas[22] + cody * dumas[23] == 54563:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[45] + cody * dumas[46] + dumas[47] == 98325:
    carmen += 1 
  if dumas[39] + dumas[40] + cody * dumas[41] == 115125:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[24] + cody * dumas[25] + dumas[26] == 26640:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[21] + dumas[22] + cody * dumas[23] == 135833:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[9] + dumas[10] + cody * dumas[11] == 122890:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[39] + dumas[40] + cody * dumas[41] == 46239:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 87961:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[27] + dumas[28] + cody * dumas[29] == 144847:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[30] + dumas[31] + cody * dumas[32] == 35402:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[27] + dumas[28] + cody * dumas[29] == 58159:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[3] + dumas[4] + cody * dumas[5] == 40542:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 42776:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[30] + cody * dumas[31] + dumas[32] == 57633:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[42] + cody * dumas[43] + dumas[44] == 26019:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[18] + dumas[19] + cody * dumas[20] == 54540:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[18] + cody * dumas[19] + dumas[20] == 51438:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[21] + cody * dumas[22] + dumas[23] == 98394:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[24] + dumas[25] + cody * dumas[26] == 51973:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[24] + dumas[25] + cody * dumas[26] == 129373:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[30] + dumas[31] + cody * dumas[32] == 88034:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 17234:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[30] + cody * dumas[31] + dumas[32] == 143547:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[33] + cody * dumas[34] + dumas[35] == 43078:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[33] + dumas[34] + cody * dumas[35] == 42770:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[33] + cody * dumas[34] + dumas[35] == 107320:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[36] + dumas[37] + cody * dumas[38] == 26073:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[33] + dumas[34] + cody * dumas[35] == 17228:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[39] + cody * dumas[40] + dumas[41] == 27627:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[39] + cody * dumas[40] + dumas[41] == 68649:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[27] + cody * dumas[28] + dumas[29] == 62223:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[42] + cody * dumas[43] + dumas[44] == 64719:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[45] + dumas[46] + cody * dumas[47] == 29161:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[42] + dumas[43] + cody * dumas[44] == 35842:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[36] + cody * dumas[37] + dumas[38] == 63482:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[42] + dumas[43] + cody * dumas[44] == 89248:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[45] + dumas[46] + cody * dumas[47] == 72505:
    carmen += 1

  zola+zola
return carmen == 32


if len(a) != 48:
  print('Non, c\'est pas ça...')
  exit(0)

for i in range(10): #Checker 10 fois c'est mieux que 1 seule fois ! Comme ça je suis sûr de moi...
  if not (check(a, 1) or check(a, 1)): 
    print('Non, c\'est pas ça...')
    exit(0)

print('Bravo ! Le flag est 404CTF{le mot de passe que vous avez rentré pour valider}!')
```

We are a system of 64 equations on the triplets `{dumas[i], dumas[i+1], dumas[i+2]}` of letters of the flag.
Analyzing the equations more carefully we notice that:
1. For each `0 <= i < 16`, 4 equations exists
  For example
    - `dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 35329`
    - `dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 87961`
    - `dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 42776`
    - `dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 17234`
2. These equations come in 2 types:
    - `type 1`: `dumas[i] + cody *dumas[i+1] +  dumas[i+2] == rhs`
    - `type 2`: `dumas[i] + dumas[i+1] + cody *dumas[i+2] == rhs`
3. There are exactly 2 `type 1` and 2 `type 2` equations
    - `type 1`:
        * `dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 35329`
        * `dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 87961`
    - `type 2`:
        * `dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 42776`
        * `dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 17234`
4. Each of these equations have a different right-hand-sides

> This means that for a given `i` and a specific value of `cody`, only one `type 1` and only one `type 2` can be satisfied for any assignement.
> At maximum, we can only satisfy 32 of these equations, which is the value we need to pass the `check` function.

With this conclusion we can bruteforce some solutions after knowing the value of `cody`.

#### The Python Interpreter's Optimization

While it seems like we can find many flag solutions (not only 1) because that there is only 32 active constraints, this isn't true.
The `check` function is run many (20) times, [The python interpreter will specialize bytecode instructions in order to optimize for speed](https://peps.python.org/pep-0659/),
This in turn will changes the value of `cody`, adding more constraints (64 to be precise) on the values of `dumas`.

Suppose we now know the flag is unique

> For a given `i` and a specific value of `cody`, exactly one equation of each type **must** be satisfied simultaneously.

We can reasonably assume that the flag is consists only of the printable characters. In this case we get more information:
- `33 <= dumas[i], dumas[i+1], dumas[i+2] <= 126`:
- `dumas[i+1] = (rhs - dumas[i] - dumas[i+2]) / cody` for `type 1` equations
- `dumas[i+2] = (rhs - dumas[i] - dumas[i+1]) / cody` for `type 2` equations

For any of these: `(rhs - 252) / 518 <= dumas[i+1], dumas[i+2] <= (rhs - 66) / 518`.

The values of `cody` happen to be are large enough to uniquely compute `dumas[i+1]` and `dumas[i+2]`.
We also require that the `dumas[i+1]` and `dumas[i+2]` found by solving these equations are the same across all values of `cody`.

Here is my approach for this challenge:
1. Get the 2 possible values of `cody`
2. For each `i`, solve `dumas[i+1]` and `dumas[i+2]` from the previous inequalities, check for consistency, and deduce `dumas[i]`
3. Concatenate to get the flag

#### Getting the possible values of `cody`

Given the values of `cody`:

We can't simply add `print(cody)` inside the `check` function because that will modify it's bytecode and change `cody`.
But we can do it outside, I redefined `h.Bytecode.dis` to print `count('I')` (the value which will be assigned to `cody`) before returning the disassembly object.

```python
original_dis = h.Bytecode.dis
def new_dis(self):
  ret = original_dis(self)
  print('>', ret.count('I'))
  return ret

h.Bytecode.dis = new_dis
```

#### Finding an assignement

```python
import math
from itertools import product

def is_printable(d):
  return d >= 33 and d <= 126

# Find a the unique `d` that verifies the equation with right hand side `rhs` and `cody`
# `d` might not be part of the flag though, because we don't garentee that it will solve the other equation
# with the other cody, this is the accomplished by the next function `solve`

def find_d(rhs, cody):
  interval = [(rhs - 252) / cody, (rhs - 66) / cody]
  d = math.ceil(interval[0])
  is_sat = d == math.floor(interval[1]) and is_printable(d)
  return is_sat, d


def solve(equations, codies):
  for equation_i, cody_i in product(range(2), range(2)):
    sat, d = find_d(equations[equation_i], codies[cody_i])
    if not sat: continue #searching
    other_sat, other_d = find_d(equations[1 - equation_i], codies[1 - cody_i])
    if other_sat and d == other_d:
      return True, d
    else:
      print("ignoring false solution", d1)
  return False, None

# i -> (type 1 -> [rhs], type 2 -> [rhs])
equations = [
  [(42776, 17234), (35329, 87961)],
  [(19862, 49274), (100914, 40542)],
  [(61221, 152553), (67347, 27099)],
  [(18857, 46721), (49360, 122890)],
  [(25080, 62232), (147438, 59202)],
  [(27661, 68683), (58164, 144852)],
  [(128064, 51438), (135810, 54540)],
  [(39570, 98394), (54563, 135833)],
  [(66114, 26640), (51973, 129373)],
  [(25071, 62223), (144847, 58159)],
  [(57633, 143547), (35402, 88034)],
  [(43078, 107320), (42770, 17228)],
  [(25556, 63482), (64773, 26073)],
  [(27627, 68649), (115125, 46239)],
  [(26019, 64719), (35842, 89248)],
  [(39501, 98325), (29161, 72505)]
];

codies = [518, 1292]
flag = ""
for quad in equations:
  type1, type2 = quad
  d1_sat, d1 = solve(type1, codies)
  d2_sat, d2 = solve(type2, codies)
  if not d1_sat or not d2_sat: raise BaseException("cannot find the flag")

  d0 = type1[0] - codies[0]*d1 - d2
  if not is_printable(d0): d0 = type1[0] - codies[1]*d1 - d2

  flag += chr(d0) + chr(d1) + chr(d2)

print(flag)
```

If you run this script, you will find the flag: <span class="break-spaces">`404CTF{H!Dd&N-v4r$_f0r_5p3ciaLiz3d_0pCoD3S!|12T5Y22EML8}`</span>

Commit message:

finally happy with this post

src/pages/blog/404ctfs/reverse.mdx, after:

---
layout: "@layouts/blog/Layout.astro"
title: "404CTF Writeup - Reverse Engineering"
description: "404CTF - Reverse Engineering Category: Analyzing software to understand its design and functionality intricacies"
author: "Majed Abdennadher"
timestamp: 1690908821391
duration: 10
tag: "404CTF"
slug: "reverse"
language: "english"
image: "/static/media/404ctf/event_logo.png"
keywords:
  ["Cybersecurity", "404CTF", "Cryptography"]
links: ["crypto", "binary", "stegano"]
---

### Le Divin CrackMe

In this introduction to reverse engineering, we need to find three pieces of information about an executable given to us.
We need to find the compiler, the function used to check the password and the password itself.

For the compiler part, we use `objdump` to disassemble to binary and read the `.comment` section:

```bash
objdump -s --section .comment divin-crackme
# divin-crackme:     file format elf64-x86-64
# 
# Contents of section .comment:
#  0000 4743433a 20284465 6269616e 2031322e  GCC: (Debian 12.
#  0010 322e302d 31342920 31322e32 2e3000    2.0-14) 12.2.0.
```

The next step is to open up a decompiler (or a disassembler if you're bold enough) and start analyzing the program. I opened up ghidra and it has already done
most of the work for us:

![](/static/media/404ctf/divin-crackme-1.png)

As you can see, the password is compared against chunk of the passwords using the `strncmp` function.

Then it's a matter of concatenation to see that the flag is: <span class="break-words">`404CTF{gcc:strncmp:L4_pH1l0soPh13_d4N5_l3_Cr4cKm3}`</span>

### L'inspiration en images

We are given a program that shows a painting with a light cone effect.
The goal of the challenge is the find a the "hidden background". The flag will be in the format `404CTF{vec4(r,g,b,a)}`.

![](/static/media/404ctf/inspiration-en-image-1.png)

The flag format is already very revealing and we can confirm this hypothesis when we decompile the program using `ghidra`.

![](/static/media/404ctf/inspiration-en-image-2.png)

As you can see, the program is using the `C++` and `glfw` which is a lightweight utility library for use with `OpenGL` (Open Graphics Library).
Although diving into the disassembly might be tempting, it's not directly related to finding the flag. Instead, let's focus on the main loop of the program:

![](/static/media/404ctf/inspiration-en-image-2.png)

1. **Check for Program Close**: The program checks if the close button has been requested. If so, it terminates.
2. **User Input Handling**: The main loop handles user input, particularly mouse movements in this case.
3. **Frame Clearing**: The frame is cleared to prepare for the next rendering.
4. **Shader Program Setup**: The program sets up the shader, updating resolution and mouse position (uniform inputs to the shader).
5. **Texture Binding**: A texture, depicting a black background with scribbles, is bound (what we see when using the app).
6. **Drawing**: The program draws everything, applying the light cone effect and any overrides.
7. **Window Events Processing**: The loop processes window events.

In the process, the only "background" that has been overriden is the background used when clearing the frame. In the disassembly it's this line

```c
(*glad_glClearColor)(0x3e4ccccd,0x3e99999a,0x3e99999a,0x3f800000);

# The OpenGL spec says that this function has the following signature
void glClearColor(
  GLfloat red,
  GLfloat green,
  GLfloat blue,
  GLfloat alpha
);
```

It's very likely that `GLfloat = float`, so we can use a float decoder online to get the values of color channels.

Doing so will reveal that the flag is: `404CTF{vec4(0.2, 0.3, 0.3, 1.0)}`.

### Encore une mise à jour

This is a `python 3.11` reverse engineering challenge based on the bytecode specialization introduced in this version.
Here is the script:

```python
# /!\ Ce challenge est conçu pour PYTHON 3.11 !
# Il ne FONCTIONNERA PAS SUR UNE VERSION ANTERIEURE !
# Il a été testé, et est fonctionnel sur python 3.11.0 et python 3.11.3, je ne garanti RIEN, sur les autres versions
# Modifiez le fichier à vos risques et périls.... Je ne suis pas responsable.

h = __import__('dis')
dico = {'adaptive': True}

a = input('Mot de passe : ')
a = [ord(c) for c in a]

def check(dumas, zola):
  cody = h.Bytecode(check, **dico).dis().count('I')
  carmen = 0

  if dumas[36] + cody * dumas[37] + dumas[38] == 25556:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[3] + cody * dumas[4] + dumas[5] == 19862:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[21] + cody * dumas[22] + dumas[23] == 39570:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 35329:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[6] + dumas[7] + cody * dumas[8] == 67347:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[3] + dumas[4] + cody * dumas[5] == 100914:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[3] + cody * dumas[4] + dumas[5] == 49274:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[6] + cody * dumas[7] + dumas[8] == 61221:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[36] + dumas[37] + cody * dumas[38] == 64773:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[9] + dumas[10] + cody * dumas[11] == 49360:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[9] + cody * dumas[10] + dumas[11] == 18857:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[9] + cody * dumas[10] + dumas[11] == 46721:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[15] + dumas[16] + cody * dumas[17] == 58164:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[15] + dumas[16] + cody * dumas[17] == 144852:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[12] + dumas[13] + cody * dumas[14] == 147438:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[12] + dumas[13] + cody * dumas[14] == 59202:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[45] + cody * dumas[46] + dumas[47] == 39501:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[12] + cody * dumas[13] + dumas[14] == 25080:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[15] + cody * dumas[16] + dumas[17] == 27661:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[18] + dumas[19] + cody * dumas[20] == 135810:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[18] + cody * dumas[19] + dumas[20] == 128064:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[15] + cody * dumas[16] + dumas[17] == 68683:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[12] + cody * dumas[13] + dumas[14] == 62232:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[24] + cody * dumas[25] + dumas[26] == 66114:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[27] + cody * dumas[28] + dumas[29] == 25071:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[6] + cody * dumas[7] + dumas[8] == 152553:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[6] + dumas[7] + cody * dumas[8] == 27099:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[21] + dumas[22] + cody * dumas[23] == 54563:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[45] + cody * dumas[46] + dumas[47] == 98325:
    carmen += 1 
  if dumas[39] + dumas[40] + cody * dumas[41] == 115125:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[24] + cody * dumas[25] + dumas[26] == 26640:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[21] + dumas[22] + cody * dumas[23] == 135833:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[9] + dumas[10] + cody * dumas[11] == 122890:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[39] + dumas[40] + cody * dumas[41] == 46239:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 87961:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[27] + dumas[28] + cody * dumas[29] == 144847:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[30] + dumas[31] + cody * dumas[32] == 35402:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[27] + dumas[28] + cody * dumas[29] == 58159:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[3] + dumas[4] + cody * dumas[5] == 40542:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 42776:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[30] + cody * dumas[31] + dumas[32] == 57633:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[42] + cody * dumas[43] + dumas[44] == 26019:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[18] + dumas[19] + cody * dumas[20] == 54540:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[18] + cody * dumas[19] + dumas[20] == 51438:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[21] + cody * dumas[22] + dumas[23] == 98394:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[24] + dumas[25] + cody * dumas[26] == 51973:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[24] + dumas[25] + cody * dumas[26] == 129373:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[30] + dumas[31] + cody * dumas[32] == 88034:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 17234:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[30] + cody * dumas[31] + dumas[32] == 143547:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[33] + cody * dumas[34] + dumas[35] == 43078:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[33] + dumas[34] + cody * dumas[35] == 42770:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[33] + cody * dumas[34] + dumas[35] == 107320:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[36] + dumas[37] + cody * dumas[38] == 26073:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[33] + dumas[34] + cody * dumas[35] == 17228:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[39] + cody * dumas[40] + dumas[41] == 27627:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[39] + cody * dumas[40] + dumas[41] == 68649:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[27] + cody * dumas[28] + dumas[29] == 62223:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[42] + cody * dumas[43] + dumas[44] == 64719:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[45] + dumas[46] + cody * dumas[47] == 29161:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[42] + dumas[43] + cody * dumas[44] == 35842:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[36] + cody * dumas[37] + dumas[38] == 63482:
    carmen += 1    
  if dumas[42] + dumas[43] + cody * dumas[44] == 89248:
    carmen += 1
  if dumas[45] + dumas[46] + cody * dumas[47] == 72505:
    carmen += 1

  zola+zola
return carmen == 32


if len(a) != 48:
  print('Non, c\'est pas ça...')
  exit(0)

for i in range(10): #Checker 10 fois c'est mieux que 1 seule fois ! Comme ça je suis sûr de moi...
  if not (check(a, 1) or check(a, 1)): 
    print('Non, c\'est pas ça...')
    exit(0)

print('Bravo ! Le flag est 404CTF{le mot de passe que vous avez rentré pour valider}!')
```

We are a system of 64 equations on the triplets `{dumas[i], dumas[i+1], dumas[i+2]}` of letters of the flag.
Analyzing the equations more carefully we notice that:
1. For each `0 <= i < 16`, 4 equations exists
  For example
    - `dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 35329`
    - `dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 87961`
    - `dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 42776`
    - `dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 17234`
2. These equations come in 2 types:
    - `type 1`: `dumas[i] + cody *dumas[i+1] +  dumas[i+2] == rhs`
    - `type 2`: `dumas[i] + dumas[i+1] + cody *dumas[i+2] == rhs`
3. There are exactly 2 `type 1` and 2 `type 2` equations
    - `type 1`:
        * `dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 35329`
        * `dumas[0] + dumas[1] + cody * dumas[2] == 87961`
    - `type 2`:
        * `dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 42776`
        * `dumas[0] + cody * dumas[1] + dumas[2] == 17234`
4. Each of these equations have a different right-hand-sides

> This means that for a given `i` and a specific value of `cody`, only one `type 1` and only one `type 2` can be satisfied for any assignement.
> At maximum, we can only satisfy 32 of these equations, which is the value we need to pass the `check` function.

With this conclusion we can bruteforce some solutions after knowing the value of `cody`.
I actually did this during the CTF and found only one solution in printable characters which was in fact the flag.
But let's continue entertaining these thoughts to find a faster method.

#### The Python Interpreter's Optimization

While it seems like we can find many flag solutions (not only 1) because that there is only 32 active constraints, this isn't necessarily true.
The `check` function is run many (20) times, [The python interpreter will specialize bytecode instructions in order to optimize for speed](https://peps.python.org/pep-0659/),
This in turn will changes the value of `cody`, adding more constraints (64 to be precise) on the values of `dumas` to produce a unique flag for this challenge.

#### Working with printable characters

If we assume that the flag consists only of the printable characters (a very reasonable assumption), then:
- `33 <= dumas[i], dumas[i+1], dumas[i+2] <= 126`:
- `dumas[i+1] = (rhs - dumas[i] - dumas[i+2]) / cody` for `type 1` equations
- `dumas[i+2] = (rhs - dumas[i] - dumas[i+1]) / cody` for `type 2` equations

For any of these: `(rhs - 252) / 518 <= dumas[i+1], dumas[i+2] <= (rhs - 66) / 518`.

The values of `cody` happen to be are large enough to uniquely compute `dumas[i+1]` and `dumas[i+2]`.
This doesn't mean what the solutions we get by solving these inequalities are characters of the flag, but characters of the flag is among the solutions for sure.

A character of the flag verifies the property that it is found using the 2 equations of the same type and the 2 different values `cody` (*earlier conclusion*) so we will require this.

Here is the summary for this solution:
1. Get the 2 possible values of `cody`
2. For each `i`, solve `dumas[i+1]` and `dumas[i+2]` from the previous inequalities, and deduce `dumas[i]`
3. Concatenate to get the flag

#### Getting the possible values of `cody`

Given the values of `cody`:

We can't simply add `print(cody)` inside the `check` function because that will modify it's bytecode and change `cody`.
But we can do it outside, I redefined `h.Bytecode.dis` to print `count('I')` (the value which will be assigned to `cody`) before returning the disassembly object.

```python
original_dis = h.Bytecode.dis
def new_dis(self):
  ret = original_dis(self)
  print('>', ret.count('I'))
  return ret

h.Bytecode.dis = new_dis
```

#### Finding an assignement

```python
import math
from itertools import product

def is_printable(d):
  return d >= 33 and d <= 126

# Find a the unique `d` that verifies the equation with right hand side `rhs` and `cody`
# type 1 => d = dumas[i+1]
# type 2 => d = dumas[i+2]
# `d` might not be part of the flag though, because we don't garentee that it will solve the other equation
# with the other cody, this is the accomplished by the next function `solve`

def find_d(rhs, cody):
  interval = [(rhs - 252) / cody, (rhs - 66) / cody]
  d = math.ceil(interval[0])
  is_sat = d == math.floor(interval[1]) and is_printable(d)
  return is_sat, d

def solve(equations, codies):
  for equation_i, cody_i in product(range(2), range(2)):
    sat, d = find_d(equations[equation_i], codies[cody_i])
    if not sat: continue #searching
    other_sat, other_d = find_d(equations[1 - equation_i], codies[1 - cody_i])
    if other_sat and d == other_d:
      return True, d
    else:
      print("ignoring false solution", d1)
  return False, None

# i -> (type 1 -> [rhs], type 2 -> [rhs])
equations = [
  [(42776, 17234), (35329, 87961)],
  [(19862, 49274), (100914, 40542)],
  [(61221, 152553), (67347, 27099)],
  [(46721, 18857), (49360, 122890)],
  [(25080, 62232), (147438, 59202)],
  [(27661, 68683), (58164, 144852)],
  [(128064, 51438), (135810, 54540)],
  [(39570, 98394), (54563, 135833)],
  [(66114, 26640), (51973, 129373)],
  [(25071, 62223), (144847, 58159)],
  [(57633, 143547), (35402, 88034)],
  [(43078, 107320), (42770, 17228)],
  [(25556, 63482), (64773, 26073)],
  [(27627, 68649), (115125, 46239)],
  [(26019, 64719), (35842, 89248)],
  [(39501, 98325), (29161, 72505)]
];

codies = [518, 1292]
flag = ""
for quad in equations:
  type1, type2 = quad
  d1_sat, d1 = solve(type1, codies)
  d2_sat, d2 = solve(type2, codies)
  if not d1_sat or not d2_sat: raise BaseException("cannot find the flag")

  # We don't know which cody will satisfy this equation, but one of them will
  d0 = type1[0] - codies[0]*d1 - d2
  if not is_printable(d0): d0 = type1[0] - codies[1]*d1 - d2

  flag += chr(d0) + chr(d1) + chr(d2)

print(flag)
```

If you run this script, you will find the flag: <span class="break-words">`404CTF{H!Dd&N-v4r$_f0r_5p3ciaLiz3d_0pCoD3S!|12T5Y22EML8}`</span>

This method is really fast for finding the *unique* flag but it's not general (*issues include: 2 doubles, lack of actual constraint satisfaction, etc..*)
I think we can improve it to find all the flags if there are many and report failures more precisely. But in another blog post if you ask for it.
